Sardar Patel’s Statue, The Statue of Unity: Wearing the crown of the world’s tallest statue, it’s the sculpture of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel fondly remembered as the iron man of India. The Statue of Unity symbolizes unity in diversity and is the tribute given to the man who brought the nation together.

What you will find in this article:

Introduction
About the Statue of Unity
Why Visit Statue of Unity
Places to Visit 
Ticket Details
Contribution by the Public – Loha Campaign
Accommodation
Best Time to Visit
How To Visit
One Day Trip To Statue of Unity

(1) Introduction:

Post Independence, the people of India were drifting away, and it was the iron man who took the command. He united the 562 princely states together and formed one nation. The memorial is thus built to honor the fearless leader for his extreme contribution to India’s struggle in Independence.

(2) About Statue of Unity:

The memorial of Sardar Patel hails on the small island of Sadhu Bet close to Narmada city of Gujarat. It was inaugurated on 31 Oct 2018, which happened to be the 143rd birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. A project that was declared as “Gujarat’s Tribute to the Nation” in 2013, is the prime attraction of our country nowadays. It has gained its worldwide popularity in no time.

Not only it draws the attention of thousands of tourists every month but it has also opened countless job opportunities for the people of India. The sources say the project gave employment opportunities to nearly 3000 workers. Additionally, around 250 engineers were involved in this project for 42 months.

(3) People’s Contribution – Loha Campaign:

There is already a lot of hustle about the cost incurred in the construction of this mammoth structure. It is believed that the construction nearly cost 3000 crores. However, very little we talk about this distinctive campaign that once again pulled the nation together. The Loha campaign was an appeal made to all the farmers of India to donate their used farm tools, These tools were eventually melted and used in the formation of the statue. As Sardar Patel continually believed in unity, what would have been better than making the farmers an integral part of this awe-inspiring formation? Sardar Patel was born in a farmer’s family and was an active revolutionist. The overwhelming response was the acknowledgment of that. Around 169,000 lakh kits of iron were collected under this project.

Many NGOs and other social activists came forward to run this campaign and made it successful. Additionally, a marathon was organized in Surat and Vadodara with the name of Run for Unity and was held on 15 Dec 2013.

(4) Why Do You Need to Visit The Statue of Unity:

To Experience The Tallest Statue of the World, The massive structure that leaves you awestruck, enjoys a height of 182 m and makes it the tallest statue in the world. The statue is almost 30 m taller than the Spring Temple Buddha of China and doubles the size of the Statue of Liberty. This symbolic monument can also face up to 60 m per second.

(5) Major Places to Visit Around the Statue of Unity:

Colorful & vibrant Gujarat has some superb tourist spots including Gandhi Ashram, Akshardham, Dwarka temple, Somnath temple, Diu and Gir National Park. The statue of unity is a new addition to Gujarat tourism that has won the heart of the whole nation. Other than the great Statue of Unity, you may also like to visit these fabulous places inside the campus of Statue of Unity.

    Museum: The museum takes you to the world of Sardar Patel, and a collection of flashback pictures and videos is shown to the visitors. His contribution as a freedom fighter is not hidden from any of us however what percentage of people really know about our first deputy prime minister of India? This audiovisual show looks to be an ideal source to know more about him and seal the memories in our hearts forever. The museum additionally displays some interesting facts about the Statue of Unity and Sarovar Dam. It is an air-conditioned museum with comfortable seating arrangements done in case you like to laze around for a while.
    Sardar Patel Zoological Park and Jungle Safari: Spread over 375 acres, the Sardar Patel Zoological Park and Safari is home to magnificent big cats including an Asiatic Lion, a Royal Bengal tiger, a Black Panther, and Leopards. Also home to twelve species of deer, antelopes, giraffes, zebras, rhinos, bison, wildebeest, onyx, as well as other exotic animals including alpacas, llamas, a wallaby, and a baby hippo! Living amongst 186 species of fauna from 17 countries covering the various biomes of Africa, Australia, Asia, and America. With tickets priced at ₹200 for Adults and ₹125 for Children, one can easily spend 2-4 hours at the Sardar Patel Zoological Park and Safari!
    Light and Sound Show: Another exciting part of this place is the light and sound show that begins at 7 in the evening. It’s a one hour show depicting the life of Sardar Patel and talks regarding his contribution to our country.
    Valley of Flower: Covering an area of 230 hectares, this 17 km stretch of colorful flowers reminds you of mesmeric Kashmir. This place is very close to the Sarovar dam and is a great place to surrender yourself to mother nature and revel in the calmness around. Valley of the flower is a treat for the nature lovers and photography enthusiasts and has some selfie points for the selfie lovers.
    Sardar Sarovar Dam View Point: From this viewpoint, one could enjoy a spectacular view of one of the world’s largest concrete gravity dam. The Sarovar dam is 1.2 km long and contains a height of 163 ft. During Monsoons, the view of this gorgeous dam leaves you spellbound. You may also prefer to take a glance at the Godbole Gate that releases water from the dam and the River Bed Power House that has a capacity of 1200 MW.
    Souvenir Shop: After a day well spent with the memories of a great leader of our country, one may head towards the souvenir shop that has a collection of t-shirts and gifts.

(6) Statue of Unity Ticket:

Please remember that the Statue of Unity is closed for sightseeing & business. The below picture will give you a complete idea of your travel plan. Due to its popularity, this tourist destination is flooded with innumerable visitors every day and weekends are the busiest days. Hence, tickets can be easily pre-booked online to avoid long queues. There are mainly three types of tickets available for the general public:

Express Tickets: It prices around 1000 Rs per adult and permits you to park your cars ahead of the ticket counter inside the campus. It also allows one to access the viewing gallery which is at a peak of 135 m.

Viewing Gallery Tickets: These tickets are of Rs 350 for adults and Rs 200 for children up to 15 years. Personal vehicles are not allowed in this ticket and one has to hop in the shuttle bus to roam around. A panoramic view of the captivating river Narmada and the Sarovar Dam can be seen from the gallery viewpoint.

General Tickets: General tickets are for Rs 120 per visitor and Rs 60 for children up to 15 years. Buses are available at the ticket counter area and are fully air-conditioned. Just a word of caution that you may experience a long queue everywhere, however visiting this unique destination will completely blow your mind.

(7) Accommodations at Statue of Unity:

There are two tent cities designed right on the river bank. With 51 tents, Statue of Unity Tent City has different types of tents according to luxury and comfortness like, The President Villa, The Royal Villa, The Royal Cottage, The Premium Cottages.  Apart from the busy city life, an evening spent in these comfortable tents is certainly a bonus to your trip.

Little far from the statue of unity, 250 tents are waiting for you at the Tent City Narmada. These luxurious tents are fully air-conditioned and have toilets attached to the rooms. The types of tents you can get here are, Darbari AC Tent, Mini Darbari AC Tent, Premium AC Tent, Delux AC Tent, Standard Non-AC Tent.  Also there you can find Hotels, Resorts, OYO Rooms that are available near the statue of unity. 

(8) When to Visit the Statue of Unity:

November to February is the ideal time to visit this place as the pleasant weather would make the strolling worthwhile. However, the tourist spot remains open throughout the year for its guests. The statue of unity remains closed on Monday and is open between 9 am to 5 pm on the remaining days.

(9) How to Visit the Statue of Unity:

Air: The closest airports to the statue of unity are in Vadodara which is 90 km away. However, you may also fly down to Mumbai or Ahmedabad and then enjoy the road journey.

Train: The nearest station is kevadiya. We also recommended reaching the railway station of Bharuch, Vadodara, and Ankleshwar. They have functional connectivity of trains from other parts of the country.

Road: The Gujarat state road transport authority has started many buses from Ahmedabad (197 km), Surat (154 km), Vadodara (90 km), Bharuch (93 km) and Rajpipla (25 km). A road trip to the statue of unity will give you a chance to explore some breathtaking waterfalls, Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, and temples on your way.

(10) One Day Tour to Statue of Unity:

Navbharat Tourism presents a one day tour to the statue of unity from ahmedabad.  Also we offer a one day tour to statue of unity from gandhinagar, mehsana, vadodara, surat and rajkot. The tour package include Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner | Tickets of Statue of Unity, Viewing Gallery, Jungle safari, Valley of Flowers | Luxury AC Bus Pickup & Drop at Predefined Place | Tour manager & lot more. For more information kindly visit our One Day Tour to Statue of Unity from Ahmedabad page.


